The first thing I want you to keep
in mind is that we are talking about
performance marketing or
results marketing that consists
in that we will pay based
on the results that that
campaign gets.
We will pay a variable
based on the results.
And there are a number of
very common cost models
that you need to know now because
all campaigns are hired
based on these cost
models.
When you are going to hire
a campaign to a specific platform
or channel, etc., because
you make an offer associated
with any of these cost models.
Not only is it necessary to be
able to hire campaigns, but we have
to understand these cost models
because it will help us analyze
our internal costs throughout
the whole funnel, it will help
us to evaluate the ROI of different
campaigns, etc.
These cost models are
as follows.
We will explain this from the perspective
of the funnel.
We start with the CPM.
The CPM is the cost per thousand
impressions and one print is
each time you appear.
If you hire a banner in a medium,
for example in an online newspaper,
you will pay the CPM that determines
$5 for saying something, for
every thousand times you
appear, regardless of whether
those people you appeared
to have interacted with your
ad or even seen it, but
it has appeared.
The CPC is pay per click.
In this case, what we will do is
every time a person clicks on
that ad and we take him to our
website or take him where we want,
but the case is that the criterion
is that he clicks.
We will pay the cost per
click.
If you are told the cost per click
is 10 euros, because each person
who clicks on you costs 10 euros.
Another option is the cost per lead.
In this case, we have to
determine what is the criterion
for someone to be a lead.
For example, we have a form.
A form in which we ask you
for your name and email account.
Every time someone fills in
their name and email and sends
it, it's a lead.
We would be paying for the person
who fills out that form.
Other options, the most variable, the
most aligned with your results
is to pay depending on the
CPA or CAC.
But sometimes it is used indistinguishably
and I will explain
the two.
CPA is the cost per purchase.
In this case, we will pay that
amount, the CPA that we
determine, each time a purchase is
generated that generates a transaction.
The CAC is the cost of
customer acquisition.
This is the same, but we will
pay each time a new customer
is acquired.
What is the difference between the two?
The CPA can be associated each
time an additional transaction,
an additional sale, is generated.
And CACs are sometimes not used indistinguishably,
sometimes they are confused,
etc.
I want you to understand the difference.
If we have an e-commerce and
we want to calculate how much
it costs us each time we sell
an additional product, we
will use the CPA.
And if we have, I know, an application,
for example a software and
what we want is to calculate how
much it costs us to capture an additional
customer, in this case we will
use the CAC.
We have seen the different
cost models.
What do you have to understand here?
As we go down, the
risk decreases.
Why is it?
If you pay for CPM, you pay for
1000 impressions.
But you take the risk that
those impressions actually
end up becoming visits, visits
end up becoming leads
or purchases, etc.
You are taking the risk of
all conversion ratios.
It is then more difficult to estimate
what the cost is.
You get 5 CPM.
It is more difficult to assess whether that
is profitable or not at the end.
I go to the extreme.
It costs 800 euros per purchase.
Well, you already know that every
time you generate a new sale it will
cost you 800 euros.
If your average ticket is 3000,
you will win that margin.
As you can see, the different cost
models must be analyzed according
to them, not only the cost itself,
but the risk.
Because if we go down, the CPA,
the cost of customer acquisition,
etc., are more aligned with
our goals and then the risk
is lower.